README.md, before:

# dlna-proxy

This is a fork of [Nic0w/dlnaproxy](https://github.com/Nic0w/dlnaproxy).

`dlna-proxy` enables the use of a DLNA server (e.g., MiniDLNA) past the local network boundary.

## Use case

Let's say you're hosting a media library on a remote server. It might be because that remote server has more bandwidth, more storage, or both. It can also be your self-hosted NAS that you are trying to access from a remote location.

If you're able to connect to that server, either through a VPN or because the machine is routed directly on the Internet, `dlna-proxy` will attempt to connect to that server and if successful, it will announce it on your current LAN as if that server were there.

```
          Network boundary                 +------------------+
                ++          connect back   |                  |
     +----------++-------------------------+       you        |
     |          ||                         |                  |
     |          ||                         +---^--------------+
+----v-----+    ||   +------------+            |
| Remote   |    ||   |            +------------+
| DLNA     <----++---+ dlna-proxy |    broadcast
| Server   | fetch info           |
|          |    ++   |            |
+----------+    ||   +------------+
                ||
                ||
                ++
```

## Installation

### Docker (recommended)

```bash
docker run --network host ghcr.io/fenio/dlna-proxy:main \
  -u http://REMOTE_SERVER:PORT/rootDesc.xml -vv
```

### Binary

Download the latest binary from [Releases](https://github.com/fenio/dlna-proxy/releases) or build from source:

```bash
cargo build --release
```

## Usage

### Command line

```bash
dlna-proxy -u http://192.168.1.100:8200/rootDesc.xml -vv
```

### With TCP proxy

If the remote DLNA server is not directly accessible from clients on your LAN, use the proxy option:

```bash
dlna-proxy -u http://REMOTE_SERVER:8200/rootDesc.xml -p LOCAL_IP:8200 -vv
```

This binds a local TCP proxy that forwards connections to the remote server.

### Wait for server availability

If the remote server might not be available immediately (e.g., VPN not yet connected at boot), use the wait option:

```bash
dlna-proxy -u http://REMOTE_SERVER:8200/rootDesc.xml -w -vv
```

This will retry connecting every 30 seconds until the server becomes available. You can specify a custom retry interval:

```bash
dlna-proxy -u http://REMOTE_SERVER:8200/rootDesc.xml -w 10 -vv
```

### All options

```
Options:
  -c, --config </path/to/config.conf>  TOML config file
  -u, --description-url <URL>          URL pointing to the remote DLNA server's root XML description
  -d, --interval <DURATION>            Interval at which we will check the remote server's presence
                                       and broadcast on its behalf, in seconds (default: 895)
  -p, --proxy <IP:PORT>                IP address & port where to bind proxy
  -i, --iface <IFACE>                  Network interface on which to broadcast (requires root or CAP_NET_RAW)
  -w, --wait [<SECONDS>]               Wait for remote server to become available at startup.
                                       Retries every SECONDS (default: 30)
      --connect-timeout <SECONDS>      HTTP connect timeout for fetching XML description (default: 2)
      --proxy-timeout <SECONDS>        TCP connect timeout for proxy connections to origin (default: 10)
      --stream-timeout <SECONDS>       TCP read/write timeout for active proxy streams (default: 300)
  -v, --verbose...                     Verbosity level (-v = info, -vv = debug, -vvv = trace)
  -h, --help                           Print help
  -V, --version                        Print version
```

### Config file

Instead of command line arguments, you can use a TOML config file:

```bash
dlna-proxy -c /path/to/config.toml
```

Example config (`config.toml.example`):

```toml
# URL pointing to the remote DLNA server's root XML description (required)
description_url = "http://192.168.1.100:8200/rootDesc.xml"

# Interval (in seconds) at which we broadcast ssdp:alive on behalf of the remote server
# Default: 895
period = 895

# Local IP:PORT where to bind the TCP proxy
# When set, dlna-proxy will proxy TCP connections to the remote DLNA server
# and rewrite the description_url to point to this proxy address
# Optional - if not set, no proxy is started
#proxy = "192.168.1.50:8200"

# Network interface on which to broadcast SSDP messages
# Requires root or CAP_NET_RAW capability
# Optional - if not set, broadcasts on all interfaces
#iface = "eth0"

# Wait for remote server to become available at startup
# Value is the retry interval in seconds
# Optional - if not set, dlna-proxy will exit if the server is unavailable at startup
#wait = 30

# HTTP connect timeout (in seconds) for fetching XML description from remote server
# Default: 2
#connect_timeout = 2

# TCP connect timeout (in seconds) for proxy connections to origin server
# Only applies when proxy is enabled
# Default: 10
#proxy_timeout = 10

# TCP read/write timeout (in seconds) for active proxy streams
# Only applies when proxy is enabled
# Default: 300 (5 minutes)
#stream_timeout = 300

# Verbosity level:
#   0 = Warn (default)
#   1 = Info
#   2 = Debug
#   3+ = Trace
verbose = 1
```

## Docker

### Pull the image

```bash
docker pull ghcr.io/fenio/dlna-proxy:main
```

### Run with command line arguments

```bash
docker run --network host ghcr.io/fenio/dlna-proxy:main \
  -u http://192.168.1.100:8200/rootDesc.xml \
  -p 192.168.1.50:8200 \
  -d 30 \
  -i eth0 \
  -vv
```

### Run with config file

```bash
docker run --network host \
  -v /path/to/config.toml:/config.toml \
  ghcr.io/fenio/dlna-proxy:main -c /config.toml
```

### Docker Compose

```yaml
services:
  dlna-proxy:
    image: ghcr.io/fenio/dlna-proxy:main
    network_mode: host
    restart: unless-stopped
    command: -u http://192.168.1.100:8200/rootDesc.xml -vv
```

### Notes

- `--network host` is required for SSDP multicast to work properly
- If using `-i` (interface binding), add `--cap-add=NET_RAW` or run privileged

## Home Assistant Add-on

`dlna-proxy` is also available as a Home Assistant add-on. Visit the [ha-addons repository](https://github.com/fenio/ha-addons) for installation instructions.

## Building

### Native build

```bash
cargo build --release
```

### Cross-compile for Linux (static binary)

```bash
# For x86_64
rustup target add x86_64-unknown-linux-musl
cargo build --release --target x86_64-unknown-linux-musl

# For ARM64
rustup target add aarch64-unknown-linux-musl
cargo build --release --target aarch64-unknown-linux-musl
```

## License

See [LICENSE](LICENSE) file.

Commit message:

Add URL rewriting to TCP proxy mode
The TCP proxy now intercepts HTTP responses and rewrites URLs from the
origin server address to the proxy address. This fixes the issue where
DLNA clients would receive unreachable URLs embedded in XML descriptions
and other server responses.

Fixes #4

README.md, after:

# dlna-proxy

This is a fork of [Nic0w/dlnaproxy](https://github.com/Nic0w/dlnaproxy).

`dlna-proxy` enables the use of a DLNA server (e.g., MiniDLNA) past the local network boundary.

## Use case

Let's say you're hosting a media library on a remote server. It might be because that remote server has more bandwidth, more storage, or both. It can also be your self-hosted NAS that you are trying to access from a remote location.

If you're able to connect to that server, either through a VPN or because the machine is routed directly on the Internet, `dlna-proxy` will attempt to connect to that server and if successful, it will announce it on your current LAN as if that server were there.

```
          Network boundary                 +------------------+
                ++          connect back   |                  |
     +----------++-------------------------+       you        |
     |          ||                         |                  |
     |          ||                         +---^--------------+
+----v-----+    ||   +------------+            |
| Remote   |    ||   |            +------------+
| DLNA     <----++---+ dlna-proxy |    broadcast
| Server   | fetch info           |
|          |    ++   |            |
+----------+    ||   +------------+
                ||
                ||
                ++
```

## How it works

`dlna-proxy` operates in two modes:

### Basic mode (SSDP broadcasting only)

In basic mode, `dlna-proxy` periodically fetches the device description from the remote DLNA server and broadcasts SSDP `alive` messages on the local network. This announces the remote server's presence to local DLNA clients. Clients must be able to reach the remote server directly to stream content.

### Proxy mode (with `-p` option)

When the `-p` option is specified, `dlna-proxy` also starts a local TCP proxy. This mode is essential when the remote server is not directly reachable from clients (e.g., behind a VPN that only the proxy host can access).

The TCP proxy does more than simple port forwarding - it acts as an **HTTP-aware intercepting proxy** that:

1. **Forwards client requests** to the remote DLNA server unchanged
2. **Intercepts HTTP responses** from the server
3. **Rewrites URLs in response bodies** on the fly, replacing the remote server's address with the local proxy address
4. **Adjusts Content-Length headers** when URL rewriting changes the response size

This URL rewriting is critical because DLNA servers embed their own URLs in XML descriptions, content directories, and other responses. Without rewriting, clients would receive URLs pointing to the unreachable remote server and fail to load content.

## Installation

### Docker (recommended)

```bash
docker run --network host ghcr.io/fenio/dlna-proxy:main \
  -u http://REMOTE_SERVER:PORT/rootDesc.xml -vv
```

### Binary

Download the latest binary from [Releases](https://github.com/fenio/dlna-proxy/releases) or build from source:

```bash
cargo build --release
```

## Usage

### Command line

```bash
dlna-proxy -u http://192.168.1.100:8200/rootDesc.xml -vv
```

### With TCP proxy

If the remote DLNA server is not directly accessible from clients on your LAN, use the proxy option:

```bash
dlna-proxy -u http://REMOTE_SERVER:8200/rootDesc.xml -p LOCAL_IP:8200 -vv
```

This binds a local TCP proxy that forwards connections to the remote server. The proxy intercepts HTTP responses and **rewrites URLs on the fly**, replacing references to the remote server with the local proxy address. This ensures that DLNA clients receive URLs they can actually reach, even when the original server URLs in XML descriptions and other responses would be inaccessible from the client's network.

### Wait for server availability

If the remote server might not be available immediately (e.g., VPN not yet connected at boot), use the wait option:

```bash
dlna-proxy -u http://REMOTE_SERVER:8200/rootDesc.xml -w -vv
```

This will retry connecting every 30 seconds until the server becomes available. You can specify a custom retry interval:

```bash
dlna-proxy -u http://REMOTE_SERVER:8200/rootDesc.xml -w 10 -vv
```

### All options

```
Options:
  -c, --config </path/to/config.conf>  TOML config file
  -u, --description-url <URL>          URL pointing to the remote DLNA server's root XML description
  -d, --interval <DURATION>            Interval at which we will check the remote server's presence
                                       and broadcast on its behalf, in seconds (default: 895)
  -p, --proxy <IP:PORT>                IP address & port where to bind proxy
  -i, --iface <IFACE>                  Network interface on which to broadcast (requires root or CAP_NET_RAW)
  -w, --wait [<SECONDS>]               Wait for remote server to become available at startup.
                                       Retries every SECONDS (default: 30)
      --connect-timeout <SECONDS>      HTTP connect timeout for fetching XML description (default: 2)
      --proxy-timeout <SECONDS>        TCP connect timeout for proxy connections to origin (default: 10)
      --stream-timeout <SECONDS>       TCP read/write timeout for active proxy streams (default: 300)
  -v, --verbose...                     Verbosity level (-v = info, -vv = debug, -vvv = trace)
  -h, --help                           Print help
  -V, --version                        Print version
```

### Config file

Instead of command line arguments, you can use a TOML config file:

```bash
dlna-proxy -c /path/to/config.toml
```

Example config (`config.toml.example`):

```toml
# URL pointing to the remote DLNA server's root XML description (required)
description_url = "http://192.168.1.100:8200/rootDesc.xml"

# Interval (in seconds) at which we broadcast ssdp:alive on behalf of the remote server
# Default: 895
period = 895

# Local IP:PORT where to bind the TCP proxy
# When set, dlna-proxy will proxy TCP connections to the remote DLNA server
# and rewrite the description_url to point to this proxy address
# Optional - if not set, no proxy is started
#proxy = "192.168.1.50:8200"

# Network interface on which to broadcast SSDP messages
# Requires root or CAP_NET_RAW capability
# Optional - if not set, broadcasts on all interfaces
#iface = "eth0"

# Wait for remote server to become available at startup
# Value is the retry interval in seconds
# Optional - if not set, dlna-proxy will exit if the server is unavailable at startup
#wait = 30

# HTTP connect timeout (in seconds) for fetching XML description from remote server
# Default: 2
#connect_timeout = 2

# TCP connect timeout (in seconds) for proxy connections to origin server
# Only applies when proxy is enabled
# Default: 10
#proxy_timeout = 10

# TCP read/write timeout (in seconds) for active proxy streams
# Only applies when proxy is enabled
# Default: 300 (5 minutes)
#stream_timeout = 300

# Verbosity level:
#   0 = Warn (default)
#   1 = Info
#   2 = Debug
#   3+ = Trace
verbose = 1
```

## Docker

### Pull the image

```bash
docker pull ghcr.io/fenio/dlna-proxy:main
```

### Run with command line arguments

```bash
docker run --network host ghcr.io/fenio/dlna-proxy:main \
  -u http://192.168.1.100:8200/rootDesc.xml \
  -p 192.168.1.50:8200 \
  -d 30 \
  -i eth0 \
  -vv
```

### Run with config file

```bash
docker run --network host \
  -v /path/to/config.toml:/config.toml \
  ghcr.io/fenio/dlna-proxy:main -c /config.toml
```

### Docker Compose

```yaml
services:
  dlna-proxy:
    image: ghcr.io/fenio/dlna-proxy:main
    network_mode: host
    restart: unless-stopped
    command: -u http://192.168.1.100:8200/rootDesc.xml -vv
```

### Notes

- `--network host` is required for SSDP multicast to work properly
- If using `-i` (interface binding), add `--cap-add=NET_RAW` or run privileged

## Home Assistant Add-on

`dlna-proxy` is also available as a Home Assistant add-on. Visit the [ha-addons repository](https://github.com/fenio/ha-addons) for installation instructions.

## Building

### Native build

```bash
cargo build --release
```

### Cross-compile for Linux (static binary)

```bash
# For x86_64
rustup target add x86_64-unknown-linux-musl
cargo build --release --target x86_64-unknown-linux-musl

# For ARM64
rustup target add aarch64-unknown-linux-musl
cargo build --release --target aarch64-unknown-linux-musl
```

## License

See [LICENSE](LICENSE) file.
